.\" -*-Nroff-*-
.\" $Id: portfwd.8,v 1.3 2002/05/06 00:49:40 evertonm Exp $
.\""
.TH Portfwd 8 2002-05-05 "The Port Forwarding Daemon"
.\""
.SH NAME
Portfwd \- Port forwarding daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B portfwd
-h
.br
.B portfwd
-v
.br
.B portfwd
[-d ...] [-g] [-t] [ -c
.I "config-file"
]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR Portfwd
program.
.PP
.B Portfwd
stands for port forwarding daemon. It's a small userland tool which
forwards incoming TCP connections and/or UDP datagrams to remote
hosts. There is support for FTP forwarding, transparent proxy, DNS on
demand, simple round-robin load-balacing, external destination
selectors and other minor features.
.PP
This author's English skills are very bad as he's not a native speaker
of that language -- please feel free to contribute fixes for this page
if you can.
.SH OPTIONS
The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Shows summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Shows program version.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
This option increases logging verbosity for debug. Up to 3 switches
are meaningful. Failure messages are sent to the system log under
.B daemon
facility.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-foreground
Specify this option to keep the daemon running in foregroud.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-transparent\-proxy
This switch enables transparent proxying. If you intend to forward
data to hosts behind your masquerading firewall, you probably want
this option turned on; it allows your servers to see true IP addresses
of clients.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-on\-the\-fly\-dns
Portfwd usually solves all DNS hostnames upon startup. Specify the -f
option if you want the destination hostnames be updated on demand. Be
aware this can affect TCP connection times and the whole UDP
forwarding performance.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config config\-file
This argument allows specification of a configuration file other than
the hard-coded default.
.I config\-file 
is the full pathname to the configuration file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/portfwd.cfg
Default configuration file. This may be changed by the "configure" script in compile time.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.I SIGTERM
If sent to Portfwd master process (the one with lowest PID), the TERM
signal terminates the whole forwarding job.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
.IR "http://portfwd.sf.net"
Portfwd web site at SourceForge.
.br
.TP
portfwd.cfg(5)
Portfwd configuration reference.
.SH AUTHOR
Manual page loosely written by
.br
Éverton da Silva Marques <evertonsm at yahoo dot com dot br>

